JavaScript.
It's one of the most popular
programming languages today.
Maybe you're new to it.
Maybe you've been using it for years.
But you can't deny that
some of the most important,
some of the most widely used software
in the world is written in it.
But the question is, how well do you
really know this surprisingly powerful,
sometimes odd, and
often beautiful programming language?
Welcome to JavaScript.
Understanding the weird parts.
Hi, I'm Tony Alisea.
I'm a 15 year veteran of web application
development and user experience design and
welcome to this course.
This course is on JavaScript.
Let's be clear, right from the start,
this course is not about making
a web page interactive in jQuery.
Were the in and outs of Node.js.
This course is focused on JavaScript,
the programming language.
In this course, you're going to learn
how JavaScript works under the hood.
We'll delve into advanced concepts.
You'll come to understand things that
the people that built jQuery understand.
And that will make you a better web
programmer, a better Node.js programmer,
or however else you'll be using
your JavaScript knowledge.
Perhaps you're coming from being
a newer JavaScript programmer or
perhaps you've been using JavaScript for
years.
Or maybe you've been involved in
some other programming language and
are coming to JavaScript.
Other way, this course will
help you to understand that
JavaScript falsely looks like
other programming languages.
Languages like Java or C++ or C#.
Java Script is nothing
like those languages.
It's a different concept,
a different mindset, a different paradigm.
This course will help
you to understand that.
And while many programmers learning
JavaScript or using JavaScript,
find some of its elements as they dig
into the more advanced features, odd or
difficult to learn, or weird.
You're going to find that
when you truly understand it,
understand how JavaScript works and
why it works the way it does.
You'll discover that JavaScript
is a deceptively powerful and
beautiful programming language and it's
one of the reasons why it's so popular.
Now, that actually leads to my philosophy,
when it comes to learning
code my philosophy is this.
Don't imitate, understand.
The biggest mistake I think
people make in designing
programming courses and in looking for
programming courses and
books and materials is looking for
or providing just code to imitate.
Now don't get me wrong,
examples are very important but
examples parroting writing down
the code that someone else wrote for
you on a screen or on a piece of paper.
Only takes you so far.
As soon as you're in the real world and
you have to debug a difficult problem or
you have to start some
code from scratch that
isn't anything like what
you've seen in your examples.
You're gonna fall down.
You're gonna have problems.
You won't be able to move forward.
However, if you deeply understand
what the tool is doing for
you and
the programming language is just a tool.
Then you'll be able to
debug those hard problems.
Come up with innovative and
interesting solutions.
Be able to look at other
people's really good code and
understand it, borrow from it,
or enhance it.
So in this course,
we'll look at plenty of coding examples.
But we'll focus first
on the understanding.
The deep understanding of
the programming language.
So that then the examples make sense, and
then you can use your knowledge in
the real world, in brand new situations.
That said,
it is expected that you have very,
very basic JavaScript knowledge
as you come into this course.
So you understand what a JavaScript
file is, variables, functions.
Basic understanding of functions,
we're gonna dive much deeper into
functions through this course.
And loops.
Just a very basic knowledge
a beginning programmer might have.
If you have that, you're good to go.
So let's get started.
We'll dive in and
I think you'll come to appreciate
this beautiful programming
language JavaScript all the more.
Let's understand JavaScript.
Let's get started.